[Music]
you
let me guess you've got facebook albums
full of photos you have photos on your
computer desktop on your mobile phone on
your bedroom wall you see photos in
magazines and newspapers on the size of
buses and of course in your family
albums we take photos for granted in a
major way but creating a picture that
looked exactly like the person or thing
that you were photographing wasn't
always obvious in fact in the past it
was a big mystery how could you in
essence take your reflection in the
mirror and freeze it in there in the 9th
century the arab scientist al hassan had
come up with the idea of using the
camera obscura which was literally a
darkroom or box with a single small hole
in one side that led light through this
would project the image outside into the
wall inside during the Renaissance
artists like Leonardo da Vinci used this
method to introduce 3d scenes onto a
flat plane so that they could copy
things like perspective more easily
in 1724 Johann Heinrich schütz
discovered that exposing certain silver
compounds to light alter their
appearance and lift marks were ever the
light touched essentially shoots found a
way to record the images that Al Hasan
was able to project but only for a
little while
shoots images disappeared soon after he
had made them it wasn't until 1839 that
people figure out how to project images
into light-sensitive surfaces that would
retain the image after exposure and thus
photography was born at that point it
was mostly two inventors who fought for
the best way to make photos one was
British scientist Henry Fox Talbot whose
calotype process used paper
and allowed many copies to be made from
a single negative the other inventor
Louis Daguerre was an artist and chemist
in France he developed something called
a daguerreotype which used a silvered
plate and which produced a sharper image
but the daguerreotype could only
positive images so copies had to be made
by taking another photo in the end that
the Guerra type one out as the first
commercially successful photographic
process mostly because the government
made it freely available to the public
so now the photography was available
getting a picture of yourself would be a
snap right well not exactly
this process still required a whole
darkroom at the location of the
photograph which was a big hassle
picture the early photographers looking
enormous trailers with all their
equipment wherever they wanted to take a
picture not only that but the early
processes had extremely long exposure
times to get a good photo you would have
to stand perfectly still for up to two
minutes this led to the development of
inventions like the head holder a wire
frame that would hide behind you while
supporting your head it's also why you
don't see people smiling in early
photographs it's not that life was that
bad
it was just hard to keep a steady grin
for more than a few seconds so people
opted for a straight face look and then
George Eastman came along Eastman
believed that everyone should have
access to photography and he spent many
late nights mixing chemicals in his
mother's kitchen to try to achieve a dry
plate photographic process this would
allow expose negatives to be stored and
developed later at a more convenient
place instead of carting those dark
rooms necessary for wet plates around
after starting a business which
initially made dry plates Eastman
eventually discovered plastic roll film
that would fit in handheld inexpensive
cameras these cameras sold by the
millions under the tagline you push the
button we do the rest while Eastman was
largely responsible for making
photography a universal pastime even he
could not have dreamed of the ways
Photography had since shaped the world
it's now estimated that over 380 billion
photographs are taken each year that's
more photographs each day than were
taken in the first hundred years
after photography was invented say
cheese